docs/getting_started/setup_your_environment.md, before:

## Set up your environment

To productively get going with Deno you should set up your environment. This
means setting up shell autocomplete, environmental variables and your editor or
IDE of choice.

### Environmental variables

There are several env vars that control how Deno behaves:

`DENO_DIR` defaults to `$HOME/.cache/deno` but can be set to any path to control
where generated and cached source code is written and read to.

`NO_COLOR` will turn off color output if set. See https://no-color.org/. User
code can test if `NO_COLOR` was set without having `--allow-env` by using the
boolean constant `Deno.noColor`.

### Shell autocomplete

You can generate completion script for your shell using the
`deno completions <shell>` command. The command outputs to stdout so you should
redirect it to an appropriate file.

The supported shells are:

- zsh
- bash
- fish
- powershell
- elvish

Example (bash):

```shell
deno completions bash > /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/deno.bash
source /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/deno.bash
```

Example (zsh without framework):

```shell
mkdir ~/.zsh # create a folder to save your completions. it can be anywhere
deno completions zsh > ~/.zsh/_deno
```

then add this to your `.zshrc`

```shell
fpath=(~/.zsh $fpath)
autoload -Uz compinit
compinit -u
```

and restart your terminal. note that if completions are still not loading, you
may need to run `rm ~/.zcompdump/` to remove previously generated completions
and then `compinit` to generate them again.

Example (zsh + oh-my-zsh) [recommended for zsh users] :

```shell
mkdir ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/deno
deno completions zsh > ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/deno/_deno
```

After this add deno plugin under plugins tag in `~/.zshrc` file. for tools like
`antigen` path will be `~/.antigen/bundles/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/plugins` and
command will be `antigen bundle deno` and so on.

Example (Powershell):

```shell
deno completions powershell >> $profile
.$profile
```

This will be create a Powershell profile at
`$HOME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` by default,
and it will be run whenever you launch the PowerShell.

### Editors and IDEs

Because Deno requires the use of file extensions for module imports and allows
http imports, and most editors and language servers do not natively support this
at the moment, many editors will throw errors about being unable to find files
or imports having unnecessary file extensions.

The community has developed extensions for some editors to solve these issues:

#### VS Code

The beta version of [vscode_deno](https://github.com/denoland/vscode_deno) is
published on the
[Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=denoland.vscode-deno).
Please report any issues.

#### JetBrains IDEs

Support for JetBrains IDEs is available through
[the Deno plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14382-deno).

Once installed, replace the content of
`External Libraries > Deno Library > lib > lib.deno.d.ts` with the output of
`deno types`. This will ensure the typings for the extension match the current
version. You will have to do this every time you update the version of Deno. For
more information on how to set-up your JetBrains IDE for Deno, read
[this comment](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WEB-41607#focus=streamItem-27-4160152.0-0)
on YouTrack.

#### Vim and NeoVim

Vim works fairly well for Deno/TypeScript if you install
[CoC](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim) (intellisense engine and language
server protocol) or [ALE](https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale) (syntax checker
and language server protocol client).

##### CoC

After CoC is installed, from inside Vim, run`:CocInstall coc-tsserver` and
`:CocInstall coc-deno`. Run `:CocCommand deno.initializeWorkspace` in your
project to initialize workspace configurations. From now on, things like `gd`
(go to definition) and `gr` (goto/find references) should work.

##### ALE

ALE integrates with Deno's LSP out of the box and should not require any extra
configuration. However, if your Deno executable is not located in `$PATH`, has a
different name than `deno` or you want to use unstable features/APIs, you need
to override ALE's default values. See
[`:help ale-typescript`](https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale/blob/master/doc/ale-typescript.txt).

ALE provides support for autocompletion, refactoring, going to definition,
finding references and more, however, key bindings need to be configured
manually. Copy the snippet below into your `vimrc`/`init.vim` for basic
configuration or consult the
[official documentation](https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale#table-of-contents)
for a more in-depth look at how to configure ALE.

ALE can fix linter issues by running `deno fmt`. To instruct ALE to use the Deno
formatter the `ale_linter` setting needs to be set either on a per buffer basis
(`let b:ale_linter = ['deno']`) or globally for all TypeScript files
(`let g:ale_fixers={'typescript': ['deno']}`)

```vim
" Use ALE autocompletion with Vim's 'omnifunc' setting (press <C-x><C-o> in insert mode)
autocmd FileType typescript set omnifunc=ale#completion#OmniFunc

" Make sure to use map instead of noremap when using a <Plug>(...) expression as the {rhs}
nmap gr <Plug>(ale_rename)
nmap gR <Plug>(ale_find_reference)
nmap gd <Plug>(ale_go_to_definition)
nmap gD <Plug>(ale_go_to_type_definition)

let g:ale_fixers = {'typescript': ['deno']}
let g:ale_fix_on_save = 1 " run deno fmt when saving a buffer
```

#### Emacs

Emacs works pretty well for a TypeScript project targeted to Deno by using a
combination of [tide](https://github.com/ananthakumaran/tide) which is the
canonical way of using TypeScript within Emacs and
[typescript-deno-plugin](https://github.com/justjavac/typescript-deno-plugin)
which is what is used by the
[official VSCode extension for Deno](https://github.com/denoland/vscode_deno).

To use it, first make sure that `tide` is setup for your instance of Emacs.
Next, as instructed on the
[typescript-deno-plugin](https://github.com/justjavac/typescript-deno-plugin)
page, first `npm install --save-dev typescript-deno-plugin typescript` in your
project (`npm init -y` as necessary), then add the following block to your
`tsconfig.json` and you are off to the races!

```jsonc
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "plugins": [
      {
        "name": "typescript-deno-plugin",
        "enable": true, // default is `true`
        "importmap": "import_map.json"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### LSP clients

Deno has builtin support for the
[Language server protocol](https://langserver.org) as of version 1.6.0 or later.

If your editor supports the LSP, you can use Deno as a language server for
TypeScript and JavaScript.

The editor can start the server with `deno lsp`.

##### Example for Kakoune

After installing the [`kak-lsp`](https://github.com/kak-lsp/kak-lsp) LSP client
you can add the Deno language server by adding the following to your
`kak-lsp.toml`

```toml
[language.deno]
filetypes = ["typescript", "javascript"]
roots = [".git"]
command = "deno"
args = ["lsp"]

[language.deno.initialization_options]
enable = true
lint = true
```

##### Example for Vim/Neovim

After installing the [`vim-lsp`](https://github.com/prabirshrestha/vim-lsp) LSP
client you can add the Deno language server by adding the following to your
`vimrc`/`init.vim`:

```vim
if executable("deno")
  augroup LspTypeScript
    autocmd!
    autocmd User lsp_setup call lsp#register_server({
    \ "name": "deno lsp",
    \ "cmd": {server_info -> ["deno", "lsp"]},
    \ "root_uri": {server_info->lsp#utils#path_to_uri(lsp#utils#find_nearest_parent_file_directory(lsp#utils#get_buffer_path(), "tsconfig.json"))},
    \ "allowlist": ["typescript", "typescript.tsx"],
    \ "initialization_options": {
    \     "enable": v:true,
    \     "lint": v:true,
    \     "unstable": v:true,
    \   },
    \ })
  augroup END
endif
```

##### Example for Sublime Text

- Install the [Sublime LSP package](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/LSP)
- Install the
  [TypeScript package](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/TypeScript) to get
  syntax highlighting
- Add the following `.sublime-project` file to your project folder

```jsonc
{
  "settings": {
    "LSP": {
      "deno": {
        "command": [
          "deno",
          "lsp"
        ],
        "initializationOptions": {
          // "config": "", // Sets the path for the config file in your project
          "enable": true,
          // "importMap": "", // Sets the path for the import-map in your project
          "lint": true,
          "unstable": false
        },
        "enabled": true,
        "languages": [
          {
            "languageId": "javascript",
            "scopes": ["source.js"],
            "syntaxes": [
              "Packages/Babel/JavaScript (Babel).sublime-syntax",
              "Packages/JavaScript/JavaScript.sublime-syntax"
            ]
          },
          {
            "languageId": "javascriptreact",
            "scopes": ["source.jsx"],
            "syntaxes": [
              "Packages/Babel/JavaScript (Babel).sublime-syntax",
              "Packages/JavaScript/JavaScript.sublime-syntax"
            ]
          },
          {
            "languageId": "typescript",
            "scopes": ["source.ts"],
            "syntaxes": [
              "Packages/TypeScript-TmLanguage/TypeScript.tmLanguage",
              "Packages/TypeScript Syntax/TypeScript.tmLanguage"
            ]
          },
          {
            "languageId": "typescriptreact",
            "scopes": ["source.tsx"],
            "syntaxes": [
              "Packages/TypeScript-TmLanguage/TypeScriptReact.tmLanguage",
              "Packages/TypeScript Syntax/TypeScriptReact.tmLanguage"
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If you don't see your favorite IDE on this list, maybe you can develop an
extension. Our [community Discord group](https://discord.gg/deno) can give you
some pointers on where to get started.

Commit message:

docs: add documentation about Atom Editor LSP client (#10016)
Co-authored-by: ayame113 <ayame113@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/getting_started/setup_your_environment.md, after:

## Set up your environment

To productively get going with Deno you should set up your environment. This
means setting up shell autocomplete, environmental variables and your editor or
IDE of choice.

### Environmental variables

There are several env vars that control how Deno behaves:

`DENO_DIR` defaults to `$HOME/.cache/deno` but can be set to any path to control
where generated and cached source code is written and read to.

`NO_COLOR` will turn off color output if set. See https://no-color.org/. User
code can test if `NO_COLOR` was set without having `--allow-env` by using the
boolean constant `Deno.noColor`.

### Shell autocomplete

You can generate completion script for your shell using the
`deno completions <shell>` command. The command outputs to stdout so you should
redirect it to an appropriate file.

The supported shells are:

- zsh
- bash
- fish
- powershell
- elvish

Example (bash):

```shell
deno completions bash > /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/deno.bash
source /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/deno.bash
```

Example (zsh without framework):

```shell
mkdir ~/.zsh # create a folder to save your completions. it can be anywhere
deno completions zsh > ~/.zsh/_deno
```

then add this to your `.zshrc`

```shell
fpath=(~/.zsh $fpath)
autoload -Uz compinit
compinit -u
```

and restart your terminal. note that if completions are still not loading, you
may need to run `rm ~/.zcompdump/` to remove previously generated completions
and then `compinit` to generate them again.

Example (zsh + oh-my-zsh) [recommended for zsh users] :

```shell
mkdir ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/deno
deno completions zsh > ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/deno/_deno
```

After this add deno plugin under plugins tag in `~/.zshrc` file. for tools like
`antigen` path will be `~/.antigen/bundles/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/plugins` and
command will be `antigen bundle deno` and so on.

Example (Powershell):

```shell
deno completions powershell >> $profile
.$profile
```

This will be create a Powershell profile at
`$HOME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` by default,
and it will be run whenever you launch the PowerShell.

### Editors and IDEs

Because Deno requires the use of file extensions for module imports and allows
http imports, and most editors and language servers do not natively support this
at the moment, many editors will throw errors about being unable to find files
or imports having unnecessary file extensions.

The community has developed extensions for some editors to solve these issues:

#### VS Code

The beta version of [vscode_deno](https://github.com/denoland/vscode_deno) is
published on the
[Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=denoland.vscode-deno).
Please report any issues.

#### JetBrains IDEs

Support for JetBrains IDEs is available through
[the Deno plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14382-deno).

Once installed, replace the content of
`External Libraries > Deno Library > lib > lib.deno.d.ts` with the output of
`deno types`. This will ensure the typings for the extension match the current
version. You will have to do this every time you update the version of Deno. For
more information on how to set-up your JetBrains IDE for Deno, read
[this comment](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WEB-41607#focus=streamItem-27-4160152.0-0)
on YouTrack.

#### Vim and NeoVim

Vim works fairly well for Deno/TypeScript if you install
[CoC](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim) (intellisense engine and language
server protocol) or [ALE](https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale) (syntax checker
and language server protocol client).

##### CoC

After CoC is installed, from inside Vim, run`:CocInstall coc-tsserver` and
`:CocInstall coc-deno`. Run `:CocCommand deno.initializeWorkspace` in your
project to initialize workspace configurations. From now on, things like `gd`
(go to definition) and `gr` (goto/find references) should work.

##### ALE

ALE integrates with Deno's LSP out of the box and should not require any extra
configuration. However, if your Deno executable is not located in `$PATH`, has a
different name than `deno` or you want to use unstable features/APIs, you need
to override ALE's default values. See
[`:help ale-typescript`](https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale/blob/master/doc/ale-typescript.txt).

ALE provides support for autocompletion, refactoring, going to definition,
finding references and more, however, key bindings need to be configured
manually. Copy the snippet below into your `vimrc`/`init.vim` for basic
configuration or consult the
[official documentation](https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale#table-of-contents)
for a more in-depth look at how to configure ALE.

ALE can fix linter issues by running `deno fmt`. To instruct ALE to use the Deno
formatter the `ale_linter` setting needs to be set either on a per buffer basis
(`let b:ale_linter = ['deno']`) or globally for all TypeScript files
(`let g:ale_fixers={'typescript': ['deno']}`)

```vim
" Use ALE autocompletion with Vim's 'omnifunc' setting (press <C-x><C-o> in insert mode)
autocmd FileType typescript set omnifunc=ale#completion#OmniFunc

" Make sure to use map instead of noremap when using a <Plug>(...) expression as the {rhs}
nmap gr <Plug>(ale_rename)
nmap gR <Plug>(ale_find_reference)
nmap gd <Plug>(ale_go_to_definition)
nmap gD <Plug>(ale_go_to_type_definition)

let g:ale_fixers = {'typescript': ['deno']}
let g:ale_fix_on_save = 1 " run deno fmt when saving a buffer
```

#### Emacs

Emacs works pretty well for a TypeScript project targeted to Deno by using a
combination of [tide](https://github.com/ananthakumaran/tide) which is the
canonical way of using TypeScript within Emacs and
[typescript-deno-plugin](https://github.com/justjavac/typescript-deno-plugin)
which is what is used by the
[official VSCode extension for Deno](https://github.com/denoland/vscode_deno).

To use it, first make sure that `tide` is setup for your instance of Emacs.
Next, as instructed on the
[typescript-deno-plugin](https://github.com/justjavac/typescript-deno-plugin)
page, first `npm install --save-dev typescript-deno-plugin typescript` in your
project (`npm init -y` as necessary), then add the following block to your
`tsconfig.json` and you are off to the races!

```jsonc
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "plugins": [
      {
        "name": "typescript-deno-plugin",
        "enable": true, // default is `true`
        "importmap": "import_map.json"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Atom

Install [atom-ide-base](https://atom.io/packages/atom-ide-base) package and
[atom-ide-deno](https://atom.io/packages/atom-ide-deno) package on Atom.

#### LSP clients

Deno has builtin support for the
[Language server protocol](https://langserver.org) as of version 1.6.0 or later.

If your editor supports the LSP, you can use Deno as a language server for
TypeScript and JavaScript.

The editor can start the server with `deno lsp`.

##### Example for Kakoune

After installing the [`kak-lsp`](https://github.com/kak-lsp/kak-lsp) LSP client
you can add the Deno language server by adding the following to your
`kak-lsp.toml`

```toml
[language.deno]
filetypes = ["typescript", "javascript"]
roots = [".git"]
command = "deno"
args = ["lsp"]

[language.deno.initialization_options]
enable = true
lint = true
```

##### Example for Vim/Neovim

After installing the [`vim-lsp`](https://github.com/prabirshrestha/vim-lsp) LSP
client you can add the Deno language server by adding the following to your
`vimrc`/`init.vim`:

```vim
if executable("deno")
  augroup LspTypeScript
    autocmd!
    autocmd User lsp_setup call lsp#register_server({
    \ "name": "deno lsp",
    \ "cmd": {server_info -> ["deno", "lsp"]},
    \ "root_uri": {server_info->lsp#utils#path_to_uri(lsp#utils#find_nearest_parent_file_directory(lsp#utils#get_buffer_path(), "tsconfig.json"))},
    \ "allowlist": ["typescript", "typescript.tsx"],
    \ "initialization_options": {
    \     "enable": v:true,
    \     "lint": v:true,
    \     "unstable": v:true,
    \   },
    \ })
  augroup END
endif
```

##### Example for Sublime Text

- Install the [Sublime LSP package](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/LSP)
- Install the
  [TypeScript package](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/TypeScript) to get
  syntax highlighting
- Add the following `.sublime-project` file to your project folder

```jsonc
{
  "settings": {
    "LSP": {
      "deno": {
        "command": [
          "deno",
          "lsp"
        ],
        "initializationOptions": {
          // "config": "", // Sets the path for the config file in your project
          "enable": true,
          // "importMap": "", // Sets the path for the import-map in your project
          "lint": true,
          "unstable": false
        },
        "enabled": true,
        "languages": [
          {
            "languageId": "javascript",
            "scopes": ["source.js"],
            "syntaxes": [
              "Packages/Babel/JavaScript (Babel).sublime-syntax",
              "Packages/JavaScript/JavaScript.sublime-syntax"
            ]
          },
          {
            "languageId": "javascriptreact",
            "scopes": ["source.jsx"],
            "syntaxes": [
              "Packages/Babel/JavaScript (Babel).sublime-syntax",
              "Packages/JavaScript/JavaScript.sublime-syntax"
            ]
          },
          {
            "languageId": "typescript",
            "scopes": ["source.ts"],
            "syntaxes": [
              "Packages/TypeScript-TmLanguage/TypeScript.tmLanguage",
              "Packages/TypeScript Syntax/TypeScript.tmLanguage"
            ]
          },
          {
            "languageId": "typescriptreact",
            "scopes": ["source.tsx"],
            "syntaxes": [
              "Packages/TypeScript-TmLanguage/TypeScriptReact.tmLanguage",
              "Packages/TypeScript Syntax/TypeScriptReact.tmLanguage"
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If you don't see your favorite IDE on this list, maybe you can develop an
extension. Our [community Discord group](https://discord.gg/deno) can give you
some pointers on where to get started.
